Housing Expenses Tip #1: Airbnb and Remote Lock Tip.
When you're buying a house, think about if you can
Airbnb a room to cover the mortgage,
or a huge part of the mortgage.
You know, see if you can make a separate door
from the outside, for an Airbnb room.
And I actually installed this door here
when we used to rent out a room to Airbnb guests.
We don't rent it out anymore, though.
And search Airbnb now,
using your country or Zip or Postal code,
to see what your neighbors,
or people that live close to you are charging.
If you want, and if you're curious about,
about finding a way to get additional income,
as I never want you to please rely
on just one source of income.
And, separately, if you are not home
to rent out your vacation house, or part of your house.
I don't have a vacation house, but a lot of people do this.
You can buy an August lock.
And I'm gonna show it to ya, hold on a second here, please.
Okay, you can see it, can you see that here?
Okay, I'll hold it this way
so the glare doesn't get on there.
But you can buy an August lock
and send your guests the keys that work.
And the keys actually expire and they're virtual.
Okay, it actually goes to an app on their iPhone
or Android handset.
And we use this third generation of August's lock.
And it works out well.
The first two generations weren't that great.
This one actually works quite well.
And if you want more details on this,
let me know, I'm happy to do a separate video for ya
to show you how it actually works.
But it's pretty cool and, for security reasons,
I love it too, because I can tell
when my kids come home and that sorta thing.
And if we ever have somebody that has to do work
on the house or in the backyard, whatever it might be,
sometimes we'll give them a code that expires.
And we know exactly when they come and go.
And, again, we send them these keys using our iPhone,
which is pretty cool.
Pretty cool, the future is now.
Separately, get a roommate if ya want
to lower your household expenses, that one's obvious.
And, lastly, if you work from home
for just one of your sources of income,
look into expensing part of your house.
Tip #2: Do It Yourself Tip.
When it comes to minor renovations or home repair,
use YouTube and do it yourself,
except for anything involving electricity.
And it's a lot of fun too,
and you can always use Pinterest for awesome ideas.
And so use YouTube more often for ideas
on how to do stuff that you usually pay others to do.
You know, like installing carpets, et cetera.
I've done all this stuff myself, just using YouTube,
instead of hiring people, and you save a lot of money.
And so, for example, I just renovated
our attic from scratch.
And the cost was about $1000 in supplies,
and no labor because I did it myself.
Sure, I made a lot of mistakes.
But we saved a lot of money and it was fun too.
And, you know, we learned a lot as well
through the whole process.
And it felt so good when we were done.
You know, kinda like when ya finish a model
or a Lego house when you're younger.
Or compiling code if you're a programmer.
It just feels like ya accomplished something.
And so, here's what our attic used to look like.
Okay, and here's what it looks like now.
It's not perfect, but we now have an office upstairs,
which is pretty cool.
And I bought really, really cheap materials
from Ikea, Lowe's, and Home Depot.
Which are hardware stores here in the US.
And sales reps at those companies
were really great and patient
when I asked them for their opinions.
And YouTube was amazing.
Use Pinterest a lot for money saving ideas.
It's a lot of fun as well.
Housing Expenses #3: Heating
and Monitoring Your Thermostat Tips.
Buy a better thermostat reader that is programmable.
Like Nest from Google or competing products similar to Nest.
And, using Nest, which looks like this in our house,
you can remotely turn off heat and/or air conditioning,
and it can automatically turn off
the heater, air conditioning,
if it senses that nobody is at home.
And it's fully customizable.
And it can be a great investment,
as you can actually save money in the long run
in utility bills, because of this.
Separately, close the curtains or blinds on hot days.
And we had just a brutal heatwave recently
here in the Bay area.
Which, unfortunately, caused some fires too.
And, you know, here's my hack job way
of closing curtains and stuff.
And I just did this for my recording studio, actually.
I bought this silver metal stuff
which comes in, this might hurt the lighting here,
it comes in these big roles, right.
Let me just put this over here.
Don't wanna sling it against he lights and start a fire.
But I bought this stuff and I put it on some of the windows
in my recording studio too, so that, you know,
I could preserve electricity.
Because I didn't have to air condition too much.
And, also, it got rid of some noise from the outside.
And here's my hack job.
Let me stand back here, sorry about the glare.
(laughs)
I put Velcro on the back so it fits on the window.
And then I created this for my air conditioning unit
to go through if I need it to.
And I got all creative
with the screen that I put on as well, for this video here.
I had a lot of fun with it as well.
And, also, install insolation if ya can.
And I'm not talking about the pink stuff
you might already have in your attic.
But you can get creative as well.
And this is something I use, it's called Great Stuff.
And it actually, it's this kinda plastic stuff
that comes out in almost liquid format.
And then it expands a bit and then turns hard.
Which can save ya a lot of money
in heating and air conditioning bills over the long run.
And, also, it gets rid of mice as well.
Which can cost ya a fortune.
And bugs, as well, if ya ever want to sell your house.
Okay, so, and just make sure you have enough insolation
in the attic in general.
As that investment, in general, pays off big time
in just lower fees.
And then change your air conditioning
and furnace filters often, that'll save ya money as well.
Okay, it'll work better too
and people will get less sick in your house, okay.
Home Expenses Tip #4: Home Remodeling Tip.
Don't, please don't remodel your house
during a very positive economic cycle.
And before you do, make sure you understand
that many contractors rip you off.
And that you are not adding to the resell value
of your house at all, if you make your house
the nicest house on the block.
So only do remodels if you think it will enhance
the house when you sell it.
And minor bathroom and kitchen remodels
are the best investments you can make.
Housing Expenses #5: Lowering Rent Expense.
If you rent an apartment or a house,
ask if you can pay less monthly.
And I know this sounds crazy
but imagine the headache that your landlord would have
in finding another person to rent it.
They might have a month where no one's there.
And that month of vacancy can cost a lot of money.
And, you know what, nobody asks for a rent break.
Nobody does it, you should though, okay.
And even if it's only five or 10 dollars,
or whatever it is per month,
this really adds up over time, as you know.
And if our landlord asks us to pay more in rent,
then why can't we ask our landlord, occasionally,
if we can pay less in rent?
And nobody asks, which is one reason why
most people don't save enough.
Housing Expenses Tip #6: Property Tax Savings Tip.
See if you can appeal
and lower what the value is of your house
with your local government representative.
So that you can pay less, annually, in property tax.
It can be done.
Housing Expenses Tip #7: Trees to Plant
to Save You Money Tip.
This one's fun.
If you have hot summers and cold winters,
then plant more trees close to your house.
And make sure they're not evergreen trees.
Like we had in Canada, growing up.
Why?
Because you want the trees, the leaves on the trees,
to be gone in the winter.
So that the sun heats the house in the winter.
And you want the leaves to be there in the summer,
in order to block the sun.
And I love Warren Buffett's quote
on somebody is sitting in the shade today
because someone planted a tree a long time ago.
Very longterm focused, love it, okay.
Tip #8: Vacation Home Tip.
Vacation homes are usually not good investments
because we only use them 10% of the time
and the value drops a lot when the economy gets awful.
And, if you own one, rent it out, using Airbnb,
like we talked about, when you aren't using it.
And, actually, this is interesting.
In the United States and many countries,
you can rent out part or all of your house
for two weeks per year,
and you don't have to claim it on your income taxes.
As long as it's under two weeks.
Separately, timeshares are not the best investment.
Because they're usually incredibly illiquid,
meaning they're very difficult to sell.
But if you have them, and you don't use it,
then just rent it out a lot.
Using, if you want the August lock we talked about, okay,
and Airbnb.
Housing Expenses Tip #9: Water Saving Tips.
Buy a shower head that reduces the flow of water
annually in your shower.
You know, find out if it's cheaper to run your dishwasher
at night, as well, which is what we do.
Also, turn off automatic sprinklers, if applicable,
when it's raining.
And water the grass when it's dark
because there's less evaporation.
And, lastly, turn off the water when you brush your teeth.
Tip #10: When to Buy a House or An Apartment.
Buy your house or apartment in Q4,
meaning, October, November, December,
as that's the hardest time for people
to sell their house or apartment.
And you can get great deals.
And we're gonna discuss buying and renting,
as well as real estate, investment properties,
and mortgages, et cetera, later in the course
in this section here.